readme.md, before:

# WordCamp.org

[WordCamp.org](https://central.wordcamp.org) is a platform for managing WordCamp conferences and WordPress meetup events. It provides a website for every WordCamp, with tools for creating public-facing content and managing event logistics.

The platform also includes tools for program volunteers and administrators to manage logistics for the program itself.


## Setup

Follow the instructions for [setting up a Docker environment](.docker/readme.md).


## Support

If you have a question about using your site, or contributing to the platform, please email [support@wordcamp.org](mailto:support@wordcamp.org) or join the `#meta-wordcamp` channel in [the official WordPress Slack workspace](https://make.wordpress.org/chat/).


### Bugs & Feature Requests

We encourage community members and organizers to [open issues for bugs & feature requests.](https://github.com/WordPress/wordcamp.org/issues/new/choose) We go through and prioritize issues at regularly, if you feel something is urgent or high priority please feel free to ping us in the `#meta-wordcamp` channel.


## Security

Please report security vulnerabilities via [our HackerOne bounty program](https://hackerone.com/wordpress).


## License

All code is licensed under the [GPL v2](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html) or later, unless otherwise stated.

Commit message:

Add local env to nextgen events sites (#1285)
* Set up local env for events.

* Update Readme.

* Update root Readme.

readme.md, after:

# WordCamp.org

[WordCamp.org](https://central.wordcamp.org) is a platform for managing WordCamp conferences and WordPress meetup events. It provides a website for every WordCamp, with tools for creating public-facing content and managing event logistics.

The platform also includes tools for program volunteers and administrators to manage logistics for the program itself.


## Setup

### Central & Original WordCamp Sites
Follow the instructions for [setting up a Docker environment](.docker/readme.md).

### Next Generation Events Sites
Follow the instructions for [setting up a local env with testing data](public_html/wp-content/themes/wporg-events-2023/README.md).

## Support

If you have a question about using your site, or contributing to the platform, please email [support@wordcamp.org](mailto:support@wordcamp.org) or join the `#meta-wordcamp` channel in [the official WordPress Slack workspace](https://make.wordpress.org/chat/).


### Bugs & Feature Requests

We encourage community members and organizers to [open issues for bugs & feature requests.](https://github.com/WordPress/wordcamp.org/issues/new/choose) We go through and prioritize issues at regularly, if you feel something is urgent or high priority please feel free to ping us in the `#meta-wordcamp` channel.


## Security

Please report security vulnerabilities via [our HackerOne bounty program](https://hackerone.com/wordpress).


## License

All code is licensed under the [GPL v2](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html) or later, unless otherwise stated.
