public_html/wp-content/plugins/wordcamp-qbo/readme.md, before:

# WordCamp QBO

This connects to QuickBooks API to send sponsorship invoices, etc.

There's also relevant code in `plugins/wordcamp-qbo-client` and `mu-plugins/quickbooks`.

## Testing

w.org sandboxes use the production QBO company, since they also use the production database. You can use one to debug errors that are happening on production.

For _local_ testing with sample data:

1. Define `WORDCAMP_SANDBOX_QBO_CLIENT_ID` and `WORDCAMP_SANDBOX_QBO_CLIENT_SECRET` in your `wp-config.php`. To get the values, log in to https://developer.intuit.com/app/developer/dashboard, click on the `WordCamp Production` app, then click on `Keys & credentials` under **Development Settings**.
    ⚠️ Don't use the keys from `Production Settings`, those should never be stored on a local machine.
1. Open https://wordcamp.test/wp-admin/network/settings.php?page=quickbooks and connect to QBO. Use the `Sandbox WPCS` company.
1. Do something to trigger a request, like approving an invoice at https://wordcamp.test/wp-admin/network/admin.php?page=sponsor-invoices-dashboard
1. Log to https://app.sandbox.qbo.intuit.com/ to see invoices etc that you create, to verify that it looks correct on the QBO side.
1. Check the logs with `wp wc-misc format-log wp-content/debug.log`

Commit message:

QBO: Restore emailing invoices to sponsors.
95efd98329751aa45c6598d0b01e2908e0170d57 accidentally disabled it during the refactor.

public_html/wp-content/plugins/wordcamp-qbo/readme.md, after:

# WordCamp QBO

This connects to QuickBooks API to send sponsorship invoices, etc.

There's also relevant code in `plugins/wordcamp-qbo-client` and `mu-plugins/quickbooks`.

## Testing

w.org sandboxes use the production QBO company, since they also use the production database. You can use one to debug errors that are happening on production, but try to avoid creating test invoices, since that distorts the production data. Use a local environment to test whenever possible.

For _local_ testing with sample data:

1. Define `WORDCAMP_SANDBOX_QBO_CLIENT_ID` and `WORDCAMP_SANDBOX_QBO_CLIENT_SECRET` in your `wp-config.php`. To get the values, log in to https://developer.intuit.com/app/developer/dashboard, click on the `WordCamp Production` app, then click on `Keys & credentials` under **Development Settings**.
    ⚠️ Don't use the keys from `Production Settings`, those should never be stored on a local machine.
1. Open https://wordcamp.test/wp-admin/network/settings.php?page=quickbooks and connect to QBO. Use the `Sandbox WPCS` company.
1. Do something to trigger a request, like approving an invoice at https://wordcamp.test/wp-admin/network/admin.php?page=sponsor-invoices-dashboard
1. Log to https://app.sandbox.qbo.intuit.com/ to see invoices etc that you create, to verify that it looks correct on the QBO side.
1. Make sure that you're seeing the `Sandbox WPCS` company name in the menu bar, because QBO will sometimes mix sessions with the production https://qbo.intuit.com/ site. If you're seeing `WordPress Community Support, PBC`, then you need to log out and start a new session at https://app.sandbox.qbo.intuit.com/.
1. Check the logs with `wp wc-misc format-log wp-content/debug.log`
